Food Shortage Catasthrope 2040. It has been a great discussion and prediction about it since several years ago. While the accuracy of this prediction is open for debate and it doesn't change the fact that there are still famine happening out there. Well actualy I don't have to look too far. For in my own Country, Indonesia, there are several villages which can be considered malnutritioned (take for example the recent malnutrition and measles fever in Papua which already can be considered in famine). This problem I reckon was caused by several factors, some of them are food shortage, uneven food distribution, and the awareness of healthy living in the people itself (which is quite a irony if you know Indonesia is an agriculture country).
Artificial Intelligent may not be able to directly address the third problem I stated, but the other two definitely can be addressed by AI or may even has been addressed before. To be realistic in tackling this problem not only AI-based approach is needed, but a more grassroot movements are needed. I have volunteered in one of those movement locally, and planning on being active, to better understand the problem and the people directly facing this problem. Because the reason I applied for master degree in AI is to be able to create or adapt a solution for food shortage by enabling the farmers to be more independent and smarter in managing their corps. I believe it could be done by researching User Experience (to oversimplify, combination of data visualization and computer interaction) for AI. But I am aware this may not be the root of the problem, yet I am optimistic that by learning in UvA I will come across better solution which will improve me, and in turn hopefully improve the state of agriculture in at least Indonesia.
I believed University of Amsterdam is the right place for me since it has growing environment (industry and startups) in the field of AI, which I am planning to learn more about. And adding to that, several of the academic staffs specialized in data visualization and communication interaction which will help me in my quest to learn more about crafting better user experience for machine learning applications. Moreover since I wish to continue my post-graduate research in MPI, I have intention on exposing myself to the people related by enrolling in Dutch University. 