Food Shortage Catastrophe 2040. It has been a great discussion and prediction about it since several years ago. While the accuracy of this prediction is open for debate and it doesn't change the fact that there are still famine happening out there. But to be honest even in my own Country, Indonesia, there are several villages which can be considered malnutritioned (e.g. the recent malnutrition and measles fever in Papua which can be considered famine). This problem I reckon from several news article I read was caused by several factors, some of them are food shortage and uneven food distribution(which is quite an irony from agriculture country standpoint).
Artificial Intelligent (AI) can definitely be employed to address the two problems mentioned. But to be realistic in tackling this problem not only AI-based approach is needed, but a more grassroot, practical movements are needed. I have volunteered in one of those movement locally in which we assisted a school which teaches sustainable living and farming in adapting solar energy, to better understand the problem and the people directly facing this problem. 
I believe a different approach is needed to complement the cutting edge research and the grassroot movements, that is by employing User Experience (UX) in AI research. That is by approaching the problem with more user centric mind and involving the user through the progress. To be able to make it real, I need to enhance my understanding in AI, especially in the field of data visualization and human computer interaction. 
I believe University of Amsterdam is the right place for me since it has growing environment (industries and startups) in the field of AI, which I am planning to learn more about. Adding to that, several of the academic staffs (Dr Bert Bredeweg and Dr Robert Belleman) specialized in data visualization and communication interaction which I will ask for help in my quest to learn more about crafting better user experience for machine learning applications. 
Lastly, I am aware that the issue I preceived may not be the root of the problem, yet I am optimistic that by learning in UvA I will come across better solution which will improve me, and in turn hopefully improve the state of agriculture in at least Indonesia.